README.md, before:

# Container Reference App

## Local setup
### Prerequisites

- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install)
- [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
- [openapi-generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) install the one which is compatible with your OS.
- Client credential for Container app from [OS1 Portal](https://portal.os1.delhivery.com)

### To Run the App

- To install the dependencies `make install`
- To build the app `make build`
- To run the app run `export $(cat .env.local | xargs)` to export the environment variables then run `make run`

## Codegen 

Client and server code can be generated using the `openapi-generator` tool. The tool is installed as part of the `make install` command. 

- Server code is generated from the `api/openapi-spec/api__v1_openapi.yaml` file using command `make openapi-codegen-server`. The generated code is stored in `api/v1/` directory.
- OS1 platform client code is generated from the `internal/pkg/domain/openapi-spec/api__v1_<domainname>-api.yaml` file using command `make openapi-codegen-client`. The generated code is stored in `internal/pkg/domain/<domainname>` directory.

### Add a new API to the service 

- Update `api/openapi-spec/api__v1_openapi.yaml` file to add the new API route
- Run `make openapi-codegen-server` to generate the server code and its associated types.

### Add a new OS1 service 

- Download the OpenAPI spec from the OS1 documentation site https://swagger.preprod.fxtrt.io/
- Copy the openapi yaml file to `internal/package/domain/openapi-spec/api__v1_<domainname>-api.yaml`
- Add openapi spec generation command to Makefile. Example: Replace domainname with the actual domain name. 
```
openapi-codegen-client:	
	openapi-generator generate -g go -i internal/pkg/domain/openapi-spec/api__v2_<domainname>-api.yaml -o internal/pkg/domain/<domainname> -p packageName=<domainname>domain -p enumClassPrefix=true --global-property skipFormModel=false,modelDocs=false,apiTests=false,apiDocs=false
```
- Run `make openapi-codegen-client` to generate the client code.

### Authorization

There are two types of authorization supported by the service.
- CoreOS token based authorization
- API key based authorization

#### API key based authorization

This authorization is activated when the `X-API-KEY` header is present in the request. The value of the header is the API key that is a hardcoded token that is supplied as an environment variable in key APP_API_KEY.

API Key based authorization is default authorization mechanism which is validated before the CoreOS token based authorization. 

#### CoreOS token based authorization

This is the default authorization mechanism. This authorization is activated when the `X-COREOS-ACCESS` header is present in the request. The value of the header is the access token that is generated by the CoreOS platform idp (keylcoak). A valid Token can be obtained by loggin into OS1 console. Access token is validated agains the tenant id that is present in the `X-COREOS-TENANT-ID` header.

## Sample App Features 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102122264/213291929-b62fbcd9-6932-4ac2-a15b-695843b12d9a.png)

### Ability to initialize the tenant with container types

The server is initialized with a list of container types that it needs to create for the service to operate. As part of this reference app, we are creating two container types `Package` and `Bag`.

Package is a container that can hold a single item. Its a container of leaf type. Bag is a container that can hold multiple items/ packages. Its a container of type non leaf.

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/initialize' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 8f1fb9f5-19b1-490e-b298-132847e41ac9' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to create new package 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: b4db4f62-5531-441a-a48d-809cb8f77935' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "trackingId": "TR223433WD",
  "origin": "facility:317221c7-831d-4fde-9ee4-13e7898c2485",
  "destination": "facility:317221c7-831d-4fde-9ee4-13e7898c2485",
  "scannableId": "CNT4433TRD",
  "isReusable": false,
  "isHazmat": false
}'
```

### Ability to create a new bag 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: fcf9aa52-c9a0-4d76-b501-bfcc898fc636' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "trackingId": "TR223433WD",
  "origin": "facility:317221c7-831d-4fde-9ee4-13e7898c2485",
  "destination": "facility:317221c7-831d-4fde-9ee4-13e7898c2485",
  "scannableId": "BAGT#23223FNT",
  "isReusable": false,
  "isHazmat": false
}'
```

### Ability to perform operations on package and bag

- Open a package 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb/state/open' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: e993137a-da82-4a35-afc2-c5766ab084b1' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

- Close a package

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb/state/close' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: e993137a-da82-4a35-afc2-c5766ab084b1' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

- Open a bag 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb/state/open' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: e993137a-da82-4a35-afc2-c5766ab084b1' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```
- Close a bag 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb/state/close' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: e993137a-da82-4a35-afc2-c5766ab084b1' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to add a package to a bag

Before adding a package to a bag, the package should be in `open` state and the bag should be in `open` state.

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:859af678-ceef-5932-92d1-831c52ca5e54/add/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 0b8d01bf-050c-45f6-a0b1-21bd702fd6a6' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to remove a package to a bag

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:859af678-ceef-5932-92d1-831c52ca5e54/remove/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 0b8d01bf-050c-45f6-a0b1-21bd702fd6a6' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to list all packages

```
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: fc199991-da25-49b4-b918-6122026f76cc' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```
### Ability to list all bags 

```
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: fc199991-da25-49b4-b918-6122026f76cc' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to view the package details with package Id

```
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 0fd32090-bdfe-41b4-a20a-cd262f71a66e' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```
### Ability to view the contents of a bag with the bag Id

```
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 1956bd6e-0fb2-41e9-bcf4-a79fe3be55de' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```


## TODO

- [x] Develop a API key based access for the API calls
- [x] Develop a CoreOS access token based access for the API calls
- [x] CoreOS domain api calls to use request ID sent from `X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID` headers
- [x] CoreOS domain api calls to use user info from the access token sent on `X-COREOS-ACCESS` headers
- [x] Developer a context based utility to pass tenant id and user info to domain api calls instead of tenant id/ user info function parameter in the services

Commit message:

toggle gin middleware authroization using env

README.md, after:

# Container Reference App

## Local setup
### Prerequisites

- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install)
- [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
- [openapi-generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) install the one which is compatible with your OS.
- Client credential for Container app from [OS1 Portal](https://portal.os1.delhivery.com)

### To Run the App

- To install the dependencies `make install`
- To build the app `make build`
- To run the app run `export $(cat .env.local | xargs)` to export the environment variables then run `make run`

## Codegen 

Client and server code can be generated using the `openapi-generator` tool. The tool is installed as part of the `make install` command. 

- Server code is generated from the `api/openapi-spec/api__v1_openapi.yaml` file using command `make openapi-codegen-server`. The generated code is stored in `api/v1/` directory.
- OS1 platform client code is generated from the `internal/pkg/domain/openapi-spec/api__v1_<domainname>-api.yaml` file using command `make openapi-codegen-client`. The generated code is stored in `internal/pkg/domain/<domainname>` directory.

### Add a new API to the service 

- Update `api/openapi-spec/api__v1_openapi.yaml` file to add the new API route
- Run `make openapi-codegen-server` to generate the server code and its associated types.

### Add a new OS1 service 

- Download the OpenAPI spec from the OS1 documentation site https://swagger.preprod.fxtrt.io/
- Copy the openapi yaml file to `internal/package/domain/openapi-spec/api__v1_<domainname>-api.yaml`
- Add openapi spec generation command to Makefile. Example: Replace domainname with the actual domain name. 
```
openapi-codegen-client:	
	openapi-generator generate -g go -i internal/pkg/domain/openapi-spec/api__v2_<domainname>-api.yaml -o internal/pkg/domain/<domainname> -p packageName=<domainname>domain -p enumClassPrefix=true --global-property skipFormModel=false,modelDocs=false,apiTests=false,apiDocs=false
```
- Run `make openapi-codegen-client` to generate the client code.

### Authorization

Sample app provides authorization for the APIs by intercepting all the API requests using [gin middleware](https://gin-gonic.com/zh-tw/docs/examples/using-middleware/) and validating the authorization header. This process can be offloaded to the istio ingress interceptor while deploying the service into the CoreOS platform. While developing on the local machine or while deploying onto the CoreOS infrastructure, the service can be run without authorization by setting the `AUTH_ENABLED` environment variable to `false`.

Sample app supports two types of authorization mechanisms when `AUTH_ENABLED` is set to `true`.

- CoreOS token based authorization
- API key based authorization

#### API key based authorization

This authorization is activated when the `X-API-KEY` header is present in the request. The value of the header is the API key that is a hardcoded token that is supplied as an environment variable in key APP_API_KEY.

API Key based authorization is default authorization mechanism which is validated before the CoreOS token based authorization. 

#### CoreOS token based authorization

This is the default authorization mechanism. This authorization is activated when the `X-COREOS-ACCESS` header is present in the request. The value of the header is the access token that is generated by the CoreOS platform idp (keylcoak). A valid Token can be obtained by loggin into OS1 console. Access token is validated agains the tenant id that is present in the `X-COREOS-TENANT-ID` header.

## Sample App Features 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102122264/213291929-b62fbcd9-6932-4ac2-a15b-695843b12d9a.png)

### Ability to initialize the tenant with container types

The server is initialized with a list of container types that it needs to create for the service to operate. As part of this reference app, we are creating two container types `Package` and `Bag`.

Package is a container that can hold a single item. Its a container of leaf type. Bag is a container that can hold multiple items/ packages. Its a container of type non leaf.

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/initialize' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 8f1fb9f5-19b1-490e-b298-132847e41ac9' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to create new package 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: b4db4f62-5531-441a-a48d-809cb8f77935' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "trackingId": "TR223433WD",
  "origin": "facility:317221c7-831d-4fde-9ee4-13e7898c2485",
  "destination": "facility:317221c7-831d-4fde-9ee4-13e7898c2485",
  "scannableId": "CNT4433TRD",
  "isReusable": false,
  "isHazmat": false
}'
```

### Ability to create a new bag 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: fcf9aa52-c9a0-4d76-b501-bfcc898fc636' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "trackingId": "TR223433WD",
  "origin": "facility:317221c7-831d-4fde-9ee4-13e7898c2485",
  "destination": "facility:317221c7-831d-4fde-9ee4-13e7898c2485",
  "scannableId": "BAGT#23223FNT",
  "isReusable": false,
  "isHazmat": false
}'
```

### Ability to perform operations on package and bag

- Open a package 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb/state/open' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: e993137a-da82-4a35-afc2-c5766ab084b1' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

- Close a package

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb/state/close' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: e993137a-da82-4a35-afc2-c5766ab084b1' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

- Open a bag 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb/state/open' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: e993137a-da82-4a35-afc2-c5766ab084b1' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```
- Close a bag 

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb/state/close' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: e993137a-da82-4a35-afc2-c5766ab084b1' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to add a package to a bag

Before adding a package to a bag, the package should be in `open` state and the bag should be in `open` state.

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:859af678-ceef-5932-92d1-831c52ca5e54/add/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 0b8d01bf-050c-45f6-a0b1-21bd702fd6a6' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to remove a package to a bag

```
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:859af678-ceef-5932-92d1-831c52ca5e54/remove/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 0b8d01bf-050c-45f6-a0b1-21bd702fd6a6' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to list all packages

```
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: fc199991-da25-49b4-b918-6122026f76cc' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```
### Ability to list all bags 

```
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: fc199991-da25-49b4-b918-6122026f76cc' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```

### Ability to view the package details with package Id

```
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/packages/PackageCsa:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 0fd32090-bdfe-41b4-a20a-cd262f71a66e' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```
### Ability to view the contents of a bag with the bag Id

```
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/v1/bags/BagT:7a635074-c9b2-5b66-9d09-0a1909b16aeb' \
--header 'X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID: 1956bd6e-0fb2-41e9-bcf4-a79fe3be55de' \
--header 'X-COREOS-TENANT-ID: alpha' \
--header 'Accept: application/json'
```


## TODO

- [x] Develop a API key based access for the API calls
- [x] Develop a CoreOS access token based access for the API calls
- [x] CoreOS domain api calls to use request ID sent from `X-COREOS-REQUEST-ID` headers
- [x] CoreOS domain api calls to use user info from the access token sent on `X-COREOS-ACCESS` headers
- [x] Developer a context based utility to pass tenant id and user info to domain api calls instead of tenant id/ user info function parameter in the services
